# CI/CD

The API Gateway module contains several pipelines that run on pull requests, on the main branch, on the release branch,
and periodically. They perform various tasks such as running a linter, executing unit tests with code coverage,
generating artifacts for development and production purposes, and running integration tests. The integration tests
ensure the functional correctness of Kyma API Gateway Operator and verify if upgrading to the new version of Kyma API
Gateway Operator is possible.

## Enforcing that the Required Actions Always Run

To ensure that the required actions always run, the API Gateway module uses a GitHub ruleset. This enforces the execution of all jobs that determine whether a particular workflow should start.

By default, GitHub Actions that don't run because of reasons other than being skipped in the `if` statement have the `Pending` status and do not appear as a check in a PR. The ruleset acts as a safeguard to prevent situations when, for example, an external action is not allowed to run. In such cases, the ruleset ensures that the PR cannot be merged unless the check is executed and has a status of either `Skipped` or `Success`.

## Environments

In this repository, certain jobs are set up to run within the context of the repository environment. This ensures that
the jobs that require access to repository Secrets are manually allowed by repository maintainers.

There are two environments configured:

- 'internal' - used when a repository collaborator runs a job in the repository
- 'restricted' - used when an outside collaborator runs a job in the repository. The run must be approved by
  @kyma-project/goat.

## Testing Stack

The tests use an OAuth2 authorization server mock that is deployed internally in the test cluster. In case of E2E tests running on Gardener, SAP Cloud Identity Services provider is used instead.

