docs/kyma/04-05-use-your-own-domain.md, before:

---
title: Install Kyma with your own domain
type: Installation
---

This guide explains how to deploy Kyma on a cluster using your own domain.

>**TIP:** Get a free domain for your cluster using services like [freenom.com](https://www.freenom.com) or similar.

## Prerequisites

<div tabs name="prerequisites" group="use-your-own-domain">
  <details>
  <summary label="GKE">
  GKE
  </summary>

- A domain for your [Google Kubernetes Engine](https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/) (GKE) cluster
- [Google Cloud Platform](https://console.cloud.google.com/) (GCP) project with Kubernetes Engine API enabled
- [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/) 1.16.3 or higher
- [gcloud](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/)
- [wget](https://www.gnu.org/software/wget/)

>**NOTE:** Running Kyma on GKE requires three [`n1-standard-4` machines](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/machine-types). You create these machines when you complete the **Prepare the cluster** step.

  </details>
  <details>
  <summary label="AKS">
  AKS
  </summary>

- A domain for your [Azure Kubernetes Service](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/kubernetes-service/) (AKS) cluster
- [Microsoft Azure](https://azure.microsoft.com)
- [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/) 1.16.3 or higher
- Tiller 2.10.0 or higher
- [Docker](https://www.docker.com/)
- A [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/) account
- [az](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/install-azure-cli)

>**NOTE:** Running Kyma on AKS requires three [`Standard_D4_v3` machines](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/sizes-general). You create these machines when you complete the **Prepare the cluster** step.

  </details>

</div>

## Choose the release to install

1. Go to [this](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/releases/) page and choose the release you want to install.

2. Export the release version as an environment variable. Run:

    ```bash
    export KYMA_VERSION={KYMA_RELEASE_VERSION}
    ```

## Set up the DNS

<div tabs name="dns-setup" group="use-your-own-domain">
  <details>
  <summary label="GKE">
  GKE
  </summary>

Delegate the management of your domain to Google Cloud DNS.

>**NOTE**: Google Cloud DNS needs to be set up only once per a DNS zone.

Follow these steps:

1. Export the project name, the domain name, and the DNS zone name as environment variables. Run these commands:

    ```bash
    export GCP_PROJECT={YOUR_GCP_PROJECT}
    export DNS_NAME={YOUR_ZONE_DOMAIN}
    export DNS_ZONE={YOUR_DNS_ZONE}
    ```

2. Create a DNS-managed zone in your Google project. Run:

    ```bash
    gcloud dns --project=$GCP_PROJECT managed-zones create $DNS_ZONE --description= --dns-name=$DNS_NAME
    ```

    Alternatively, create the DNS-managed zone through the GCP UI. In the **Network** section navigate to **Network Services**, click **Cloud DNS**, and select **Create Zone**.

3. Delegate your domain to Google name servers.

    - Get the list of the name servers from the zone details. This is a sample list:

    ```bash
    ns-cloud-b1.googledomains.com.
    ns-cloud-b2.googledomains.com.
    ns-cloud-b3.googledomains.com.
    ns-cloud-b4.googledomains.com.
    ```

    - Set up your domain to use these name servers.

4. Check if everything is set up correctly and your domain is managed by Google name servers. Run:

   ```bash
   host -t ns $DNS_NAME
   ```

   A successful response returns the list of the name servers you fetched from GCP.

</details>
  <details>
  <summary label="AKS">
  AKS
  </summary>

Delegate the management of your domain to Azure DNS. Follow these steps:

1. Export the domain name, the sub-domain, and the resource group name as environment variables. Run these commands:

    ```bash
    export DNS_DOMAIN={YOUR_DOMAIN} # example.com
    export SUB_DOMAIN={YOUR_SUBDOMAIN} # cluster (in this case the full name of your cluster is cluster.example.com)
    export DOMAIN="$SUB_DOMAIN.$DNS_DOMAIN" # cluster.example.com
    export RS_GROUP={YOUR_RESOURCE_GROUP_NAME}
    ```

2. Create a DNS-managed zone in your Azure subscription. Run:

    ```bash
    az network dns zone create -g $RS_GROUP -n $DNS_DOMAIN
    ```

    Alternatively, create it through the Azure UI. In the **Networking** section, go to **All services**, click **DNS zones**, and select **Add**.

3. Delegate your domain to Azure name servers.

    - Get the list of the name servers from the zone details. This is a sample list:

    ```bash
    ns1-05.azure-dns.com.
    ns2-05.azure-dns.net.
    ns3-05.azure-dns.org.
    ns4-05.azure-dns.info.
    ```

    - Set up your domain to use these name servers.

4. Check if everything is set up correctly and your domain is managed by Azure name servers. Run:

   ```bash
   host -t ns $DNS_DOMAIN
   ```

A successful response returns the list of the name servers you fetched from Azure.

  </details>

</div>

## Generate the TLS certificate

<div tabs name="tls-certificate-generation" group="use-your-own-domain">
  <details>
  <summary label="GKE">
  GKE
  </summary>

Get the TLS certificate:

1. Export the certificate issuer email and the cluster domain as environment variables:

    ```bash
    export CERT_ISSUER_EMAIL={YOUR_EMAIL}
    export DOMAIN="$CLUSTER_NAME.$(echo $DNS_NAME | sed 's/\.$//')"
    ```

2. Create a folder for certificates. Run:

    ```bash
    mkdir letsencrypt
    ```

3. Create a new service account and assign it to the **dns.admin** role. Run these commands:

    ```bash
    gcloud iam service-accounts create dnsmanager --display-name "dnsmanager" --project "$GCP_PROJECT"
    gcloud projects add-iam-policy-binding $GCP_PROJECT \
        --member serviceAccount:dnsmanager@$GCP_PROJECT.iam.gserviceaccount.com --role roles/dns.admin
    ```

    > **NOTE**: You don't have to create a new DNS manager service account (SA) every time you deploy a cluster. Instead, you can use an existing SA that has the **dns.admin** assigned.

4. Generate an access key for this account in the `letsencrypt` folder. Run:

    ```bash
    gcloud iam service-accounts keys create ./letsencrypt/key.json --iam-account dnsmanager@$GCP_PROJECT.iam.gserviceaccount.com
    ```

    > **NOTE**: The number of keys you can generate for a single service account is limited. Reuse the existing keys instead of generating a new key for every cluster.

5. Run the Certbot Docker image with the `letsencrypt` folder mounted. Certbot uses the key to apply DNS challenge for the certificate request and stores the TLS certificates in that folder. Run:

    ```bash
    docker run -it --name certbot --rm \
        -v "$(pwd)/letsencrypt:/etc/letsencrypt" \
        certbot/dns-google \
        certonly \
        -m $CERT_ISSUER_EMAIL --agree-tos --no-eff-email \
        --dns-google \
        --dns-google-credentials /etc/letsencrypt/key.json \
        --server https://acme-v02.api.letsencrypt.org/directory \
        -d "*.$DOMAIN"
    ```

6. Export the certificate and the key as environment variables. Run these commands:

    ```bash
    export TLS_CERT=$(cat ./letsencrypt/live/$DOMAIN/fullchain.pem | base64 | sed 's/ /\\ /g' | tr -d '\n');
    export TLS_KEY=$(cat ./letsencrypt/live/$DOMAIN/privkey.pem | base64 | sed 's/ /\\ /g' | tr -d '\n')
    ```

  </details>
  <details>
  <summary label="AKS">
  AKS
  </summary>

Get the TLS certificate:

>**NOTE:** Azure DNS is not yet supported by Certbot so you must perform manual verification.

1. Create a folder for certificates. Run:

    ```bash
    mkdir letsencrypt
    ```

2. Export your email address as an environment variable:

    ```bash
    export YOUR_EMAIL={YOUR_EMAIL}
    ```

3. To get the certificate, run the Certbot Docker image with the `letsencrypt` folder mounted. Certbot stores the TLS certificates in that folder.

    ```bash
    docker run -it --name certbot --rm \
        -v "$(pwd)/letsencrypt:/etc/letsencrypt" \
        certbot/certbot \
        certonly \
        -m $YOUR_EMAIL --agree-tos --no-eff-email \
        --manual \
        --manual-public-ip-logging-ok \
        --preferred-challenges dns \
        --server https://acme-v02.api.letsencrypt.org/directory \
        -d "*.$SUB_DOMAIN.$DNS_DOMAIN"
    ```

    You will see the following message:

    ```bash
    Please deploy a DNS TXT record under the name
    _acme-challenge.rc2-test.kyma.online with the following value:

    # TXT_VALUE

    Before continuing, verify the record is deployed.
    ```

    Copy the `TXT_VALUE`.

4. Open a new terminal and export these environment variables:

    ```bash
    export DNS_DOMAIN={YOUR_DOMAIN} # example.com
    export SUB_DOMAIN={YOUR_SUBDOMAIN} # cluster (in this case the full name of your cluster is cluster.example.com)
    export RS_GROUP={YOUR_RESOURCE_GROUP_NAME}
    ```

5. Export the `TXT_VALUE`.

    ```bash
    export TXT_VALUE={YOUR_TXT_VALUE}
    ```

    To modify the TXT record for your domain, run:

    ```bash
    az network dns record-set txt delete -n "_acme-challenge.$SUB_DOMAIN" -g $RS_GROUP -z $DNS_DOMAIN --yes
    az network dns record-set txt create -n "_acme-challenge.$SUB_DOMAIN" -g $RS_GROUP -z $DNS_DOMAIN --ttl 60 > /dev/null
    az network dns record-set txt add-record -n "_acme-challenge.$SUB_DOMAIN" -g $RS_GROUP -z $DNS_DOMAIN --value $TXT_VALUE
    ```

6. Go back to the first console, wait for about 2 minutes and press **Enter**.

7. Export the certificate and the key as environment variables. Run these commands:

    ```bash
    export TLS_CERT=$(cat ./letsencrypt/live/$SUB_DOMAIN.$DNS_DOMAIN/fullchain.pem | base64 | sed 's/ /\\ /g')
    export TLS_KEY=$(cat ./letsencrypt/live/$SUB_DOMAIN.$DNS_DOMAIN/privkey.pem | base64 | sed 's/ /\\ /g')
    ```

  </details>

</div>

## Prepare the cluster

<div tabs name="prepare-cluster" group="use-your-own-domain">
  <details>
  <summary label="GKE">
  GKE
  </summary>

1. Select a name for your cluster. Export the cluster name and the [zone](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/regions-zones/) you want to deploy to as environment variables. Run:

   ```bash
   export CLUSTER_NAME={YOUR_CLUSTER_NAME}
   export GCP_ZONE={GCP_ZONE_TO_DEPLOY_TO}
   ```

2. Create a cluster in the defined zone. Run:

   ```bash
   gcloud container --project "$GCP_PROJECT" clusters \
   create "$CLUSTER_NAME" --zone "$GCP_ZONE" \
   --cluster-version "1.15" --machine-type "n1-standard-4" \
   --addons HorizontalPodAutoscaling,HttpLoadBalancing
   ```

3. Configure kubectl to use your new cluster. Run:

   ```bash
   gcloud container clusters get-credentials $CLUSTER_NAME --zone $GCP_ZONE --project $GCP_PROJECT
   ```

4. Add your account as the cluster administrator:

   ```bash
   kubectl create clusterrolebinding cluster-admin-binding --clusterrole=cluster-admin --user=$(gcloud config get-value account)
   ```

5. Install custom installation overrides for your DNS domain and TLC certifcates. Run:

   ```bash
   kubectl create namespace kyma-installer \
   && kubectl create configmap owndomain-overrides -n kyma-installer --from-literal=global.domainName=$DOMAIN --from-literal=global.tlsCrt=$TLS_CERT --from-literal=global.tlsKey=$TLS_KEY \
   && kubectl label configmap owndomain-overrides -n kyma-installer installer=overrides
   ```

>**TIP:** An example config map is available [here](./assets/owndomain-overrides.yaml).

  </details>
  <details>
  <summary label="AKS">
  AKS
  </summary>

1. Select a name for your cluster. Set the cluster name, the resource group and region as environment variables. Run:

    ```bash
    export RS_GROUP={YOUR_RESOURCE_GROUP_NAME}
    export CLUSTER_NAME={YOUR_CLUSTER_NAME}
    export REGION={YOUR_REGION} #westeurope
    ```

2. Create a resource group for all your resources:

    ```bash
    az group create --name $RS_GROUP --location $REGION
    ```

3. Create an AKS cluster. Run:

    ```bash
    az aks create \
      --resource-group $RS_GROUP \
      --name $CLUSTER_NAME \
      --node-vm-size "Standard_D4_v3" \
      --kubernetes-version 1.15.7 \
      --enable-addons "monitoring,http_application_routing" \
      --generate-ssh-keys \
      --max-pods 110
    ```

4. To configure kubectl to use your new cluster, run:

    ```bash
    az aks get-credentials --resource-group $RS_GROUP --name $CLUSTER_NAME
    ```

5. Add additional privileges to be able to access readiness probes endpoints on your AKS cluster.

    ```bash
    kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kyma-project/kyma/$KYMA_RELEASE_VERSION/installation/resources/azure-crb-for-healthz.yaml
    ```

6. Install custom installation overrides for AKS, your DNS domain and TLC certifcates. Run:

    ```bash
    kubectl create namespace kyma-installer \
    && kubectl create configmap owndomain-overrides -n kyma-installer --from-literal=global.domainName=$DOMAIN --from-literal=global.tlsCrt=$TLS_CERT --from-literal=global.tlsKey=$TLS_KEY \
    && kubectl label configmap owndomain-overrides -n kyma-installer installer=overrides
    ```

>**CAUTION:** If you define your own Kubernetes jobs on the AKS cluster, follow [this](/components/service-mesh/#troubleshooting-kubernetes-jobs-fail-on-aks) troubleshooting guide to avoid jobs running endlessly on AKS deployments of Kyma.

  </details>

</div>

## Install Kyma

1. Install Tiller on the cluster you provisioned. Run:

   ```bash
   kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kyma-project/kyma/$KYMA_VERSION/installation/resources/tiller.yaml
   ```

2. Deploy Kyma. Run:

    ```bash
    kubectl apply -f https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/releases/download/$KYMA_VERSION/kyma-installer-cluster.yaml
    ```

3. Check if the Pods of Tiller and the Kyma Installer are running:

    ```bash
    kubectl get pods --all-namespaces
    ```

4. To watch the installation progress, run:

    ```bash
    while true; do \
      kubectl -n default get installation/kyma-installation -o jsonpath="{'Status: '}{.status.state}{', description: '}{.status.description}"; echo; \
      sleep 5; \
    done
    ```

After the installation process is finished, the `Status: Installed, description: Kyma installed` message appears.

If you receive an error, fetch the Kyma Installer logs using this command:

```bash
kubectl -n kyma-installer logs -l 'name=kyma-installer'
```

## Configure DNS for the cluster load balancer

<div tabs name="configure-dns" group="use-your-own-domain">
  <details>
  <summary label="GKE">
  GKE
  </summary>

To add DNS entries, run these commands:

```bash
export EXTERNAL_PUBLIC_IP=$(kubectl get service -n istio-system istio-ingressgateway -o jsonpath="{.status.loadBalancer.ingress[0].ip}")

export APISERVER_PUBLIC_IP=$(kubectl get service -n kyma-system apiserver-proxy-ssl -o jsonpath="{.status.loadBalancer.ingress[0].ip}")

gcloud dns --project=$GCP_PROJECT record-sets transaction start --zone=$DNS_ZONE

gcloud dns --project=$GCP_PROJECT record-sets transaction add $EXTERNAL_PUBLIC_IP --name=\*.$DOMAIN. --ttl=60 --type=A --zone=$DNS_ZONE

gcloud dns --project=$GCP_PROJECT record-sets transaction add $APISERVER_PUBLIC_IP --name=\apiserver.$DOMAIN. --ttl=60 --type=A --zone=$DNS_ZONE

gcloud dns --project=$GCP_PROJECT record-sets transaction execute --zone=$DNS_ZONE
```

  </details>
  <details>
  <summary label="AKS">
  AKS
  </summary>

To add DNS entries, run these commands:

```bash
export EXTERNAL_PUBLIC_IP=$(kubectl get service -n istio-system istio-ingressgateway -o jsonpath="{.status.loadBalancer.ingress[0].ip}")

export APISERVER_PUBLIC_IP=$(kubectl get service -n kyma-system apiserver-proxy-ssl -o jsonpath="{.status.loadBalancer.ingress[0].ip}")

az network dns record-set a create -g $RS_GROUP -z $DNS_DOMAIN -n \*.$SUB_DOMAIN --ttl 60
az network dns record-set a add-record -g $RS_GROUP -z $DNS_DOMAIN -n \*.$SUB_DOMAIN -a $EXTERNAL_PUBLIC_IP

az network dns record-set a create -g $RS_GROUP -z $DNS_DOMAIN -n apiserver.$SUB_DOMAIN --ttl 60
az network dns record-set a add-record -g $RS_GROUP -z $DNS_DOMAIN -n apiserver.$SUB_DOMAIN -a $APISERVER_PUBLIC_IP
```

  </details>

</div>

### Access the cluster

1. To get the address of the cluster's Console, check the host of the Console's virtual service. The name of the host of this virtual service corresponds to the Console URL. To get the virtual service host, run:

    ```bash
    kubectl get virtualservice core-console -n kyma-system -o jsonpath='{ .spec.hosts[0] }'
    ```

2. Access your cluster under this address:

    ```bash
    https://{VIRTUAL_SERVICE_HOST}
    ```

3. To log in to your cluster's Console UI, use the default `admin` static user. Click **Login with Email** and sign in with the **admin@kyma.cx** email address. Use the password contained in the `admin-user` Secret located in the `kyma-system` Namespace. To get the password, run:

    ```bash
    kubectl get secret admin-user -n kyma-system -o jsonpath="{.data.password}" | base64 --decode
    ```

Commit message:

Add information about installing Kyma with production profile (#7452)
* Add information about production profile

* Fix

* Add info to gardener section

* Fix links

* Further changes

* Update docs/kyma/04-04-cluster-installation.md

Co-Authored-By: Karolina Zydek <karolina.zydek@sap.com>

* Update docs/kyma/04-04-cluster-installation.md

Co-Authored-By: Karolina Zydek <karolina.zydek@sap.com>

* Update docs/kyma/04-04-cluster-installation.md

Co-Authored-By: Karolina Zydek <karolina.zydek@sap.com>

* Update docs/kyma/04-04-cluster-installation.md

Co-Authored-By: Karolina Zydek <karolina.zydek@sap.com>

* Update docs/kyma/04-05-use-your-own-domain.md

Co-Authored-By: Karolina Zydek <karolina.zydek@sap.com>

* Update docs/kyma/04-05-use-your-own-domain.md

Co-Authored-By: Karolina Zydek <karolina.zydek@sap.com>

* Update docs/kyma/04-05-use-your-own-domain.md

Co-Authored-By: Karolina Zydek <karolina.zydek@sap.com>

* Update docs/kyma/04-04-cluster-installation.md

Co-Authored-By: Karolina Zydek <karolina.zydek@sap.com>

* Update docs/kyma/04-04-cluster-installation.md

Co-Authored-By: Karolina Zydek <karolina.zydek@sap.com>

* Update docs/kyma/04-05-use-your-own-domain.md

Co-Authored-By: Karolina Zydek <karolina.zydek@sap.com>

* Update docs/kyma/04-05-use-your-own-domain.md

Co-Authored-By: Karolina Zydek <karolina.zydek@sap.com>

Co-authored-by: Karolina Zydek <karolina.zydek@sap.com>

docs/kyma/04-05-use-your-own-domain.md, after:

---
title: Install Kyma with your own domain
type: Installation
---

This guide explains how to deploy Kyma on a cluster using your own domain.

>**TIP:** Get a free domain for your cluster using services like [freenom.com](https://www.freenom.com) or similar.

## Prerequisites

<div tabs name="prerequisites" group="use-your-own-domain">
  <details>
  <summary label="GKE">
  GKE
  </summary>

- A domain for your [Google Kubernetes Engine](https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/) (GKE) cluster
- [Google Cloud Platform](https://console.cloud.google.com/) (GCP) project with Kubernetes Engine API enabled
- [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/) 1.16.3 or higher
- [gcloud](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/)
- [wget](https://www.gnu.org/software/wget/)

>**NOTE:** Running Kyma on GKE requires three [`n1-standard-4` machines](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/machine-types). The Kyma production profile requires at least `n1-standard-8` machines, but it is recommended to use the `c2-standard-8` type. Create these machines when you complete the **Prepare the cluster** step.

  </details>
  <details>
  <summary label="AKS">
  AKS
  </summary>

- A domain for your [Azure Kubernetes Service](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/kubernetes-service/) (AKS) cluster
- [Microsoft Azure](https://azure.microsoft.com)
- [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/) 1.16.3 or higher
- Tiller 2.10.0 or higher
- [Docker](https://www.docker.com/)
- A [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/) account
- [az](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/install-azure-cli)

>**NOTE:** Running Kyma on AKS requires three [`Standard_D4_v3` machines](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/sizes-general). The Kyma production profile requires at least `Standard_F8s_v2` machines, but it is recommended to use the `Standard_D8_v3` type. Create these machines when you complete the **Prepare the cluster** step. 

  </details>

</div>

## Choose the release to install

1. Go to [this](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/releases/) page and choose the release you want to install.

2. Export the release version as an environment variable. Run:

    ```bash
    export KYMA_VERSION={KYMA_RELEASE_VERSION}
    ```

## Set up the DNS

<div tabs name="dns-setup" group="use-your-own-domain">
  <details>
  <summary label="GKE">
  GKE
  </summary>

Delegate the management of your domain to Google Cloud DNS.

>**NOTE**: Google Cloud DNS needs to be set up only once per a DNS zone.

Follow these steps:

1. Export the project name, the domain name, and the DNS zone name as environment variables. Run these commands:

    ```bash
    export GCP_PROJECT={YOUR_GCP_PROJECT}
    export DNS_NAME={YOUR_ZONE_DOMAIN}
    export DNS_ZONE={YOUR_DNS_ZONE}
    ```

2. Create a DNS-managed zone in your Google project. Run:

    ```bash
    gcloud dns --project=$GCP_PROJECT managed-zones create $DNS_ZONE --description= --dns-name=$DNS_NAME
    ```

    Alternatively, create the DNS-managed zone through the GCP UI. In the **Network** section navigate to **Network Services**, click **Cloud DNS**, and select **Create Zone**.

3. Delegate your domain to Google name servers.

    - Get the list of the name servers from the zone details. This is a sample list:

    ```bash
    ns-cloud-b1.googledomains.com.
    ns-cloud-b2.googledomains.com.
    ns-cloud-b3.googledomains.com.
    ns-cloud-b4.googledomains.com.
    ```

    - Set up your domain to use these name servers.

4. Check if everything is set up correctly and your domain is managed by Google name servers. Run:

   ```bash
   host -t ns $DNS_NAME
   ```

   A successful response returns the list of the name servers you fetched from GCP.

</details>
  <details>
  <summary label="AKS">
  AKS
  </summary>

Delegate the management of your domain to Azure DNS. Follow these steps:

1. Export the domain name, the sub-domain, and the resource group name as environment variables. Run these commands:

    ```bash
    export DNS_DOMAIN={YOUR_DOMAIN} # example.com
    export SUB_DOMAIN={YOUR_SUBDOMAIN} # cluster (in this case the full name of your cluster is cluster.example.com)
    export DOMAIN="$SUB_DOMAIN.$DNS_DOMAIN" # cluster.example.com
    export RS_GROUP={YOUR_RESOURCE_GROUP_NAME}
    ```

2. Create a DNS-managed zone in your Azure subscription. Run:

    ```bash
    az network dns zone create -g $RS_GROUP -n $DNS_DOMAIN
    ```

    Alternatively, create it through the Azure UI. In the **Networking** section, go to **All services**, click **DNS zones**, and select **Add**.

3. Delegate your domain to Azure name servers.

    - Get the list of the name servers from the zone details. This is a sample list:

    ```bash
    ns1-05.azure-dns.com.
    ns2-05.azure-dns.net.
    ns3-05.azure-dns.org.
    ns4-05.azure-dns.info.
    ```

    - Set up your domain to use these name servers.

4. Check if everything is set up correctly and your domain is managed by Azure name servers. Run:

   ```bash
   host -t ns $DNS_DOMAIN
   ```

A successful response returns the list of the name servers you fetched from Azure.

  </details>

</div>

## Generate the TLS certificate

<div tabs name="tls-certificate-generation" group="use-your-own-domain">
  <details>
  <summary label="GKE">
  GKE
  </summary>

Get the TLS certificate:

1. Export the certificate issuer email and the cluster domain as environment variables:

    ```bash
    export CERT_ISSUER_EMAIL={YOUR_EMAIL}
    export DOMAIN="$CLUSTER_NAME.$(echo $DNS_NAME | sed 's/\.$//')"
    ```

2. Create a folder for certificates. Run:

    ```bash
    mkdir letsencrypt
    ```

3. Create a new service account and assign it to the **dns.admin** role. Run these commands:

    ```bash
    gcloud iam service-accounts create dnsmanager --display-name "dnsmanager" --project "$GCP_PROJECT"
    gcloud projects add-iam-policy-binding $GCP_PROJECT \
        --member serviceAccount:dnsmanager@$GCP_PROJECT.iam.gserviceaccount.com --role roles/dns.admin
    ```

    > **NOTE**: You don't have to create a new DNS manager service account (SA) every time you deploy a cluster. Instead, you can use an existing SA that has the **dns.admin** assigned.

4. Generate an access key for this account in the `letsencrypt` folder. Run:

    ```bash
    gcloud iam service-accounts keys create ./letsencrypt/key.json --iam-account dnsmanager@$GCP_PROJECT.iam.gserviceaccount.com
    ```

    > **NOTE**: The number of keys you can generate for a single service account is limited. Reuse the existing keys instead of generating a new key for every cluster.

5. Run the Certbot Docker image with the `letsencrypt` folder mounted. Certbot uses the key to apply DNS challenge for the certificate request and stores the TLS certificates in that folder. Run:

    ```bash
    docker run -it --name certbot --rm \
        -v "$(pwd)/letsencrypt:/etc/letsencrypt" \
        certbot/dns-google \
        certonly \
        -m $CERT_ISSUER_EMAIL --agree-tos --no-eff-email \
        --dns-google \
        --dns-google-credentials /etc/letsencrypt/key.json \
        --server https://acme-v02.api.letsencrypt.org/directory \
        -d "*.$DOMAIN"
    ```

6. Export the certificate and the key as environment variables. Run these commands:

    ```bash
    export TLS_CERT=$(cat ./letsencrypt/live/$DOMAIN/fullchain.pem | base64 | sed 's/ /\\ /g' | tr -d '\n');
    export TLS_KEY=$(cat ./letsencrypt/live/$DOMAIN/privkey.pem | base64 | sed 's/ /\\ /g' | tr -d '\n')
    ```

  </details>
  <details>
  <summary label="AKS">
  AKS
  </summary>

Get the TLS certificate:

>**NOTE:** Azure DNS is not yet supported by Certbot so you must perform manual verification.

1. Create a folder for certificates. Run:

    ```bash
    mkdir letsencrypt
    ```

2. Export your email address as an environment variable:

    ```bash
    export YOUR_EMAIL={YOUR_EMAIL}
    ```

3. To get the certificate, run the Certbot Docker image with the `letsencrypt` folder mounted. Certbot stores the TLS certificates in that folder.

    ```bash
    docker run -it --name certbot --rm \
        -v "$(pwd)/letsencrypt:/etc/letsencrypt" \
        certbot/certbot \
        certonly \
        -m $YOUR_EMAIL --agree-tos --no-eff-email \
        --manual \
        --manual-public-ip-logging-ok \
        --preferred-challenges dns \
        --server https://acme-v02.api.letsencrypt.org/directory \
        -d "*.$SUB_DOMAIN.$DNS_DOMAIN"
    ```

    You will see the following message:

    ```bash
    Please deploy a DNS TXT record under the name
    _acme-challenge.rc2-test.kyma.online with the following value:

    # TXT_VALUE

    Before continuing, verify the record is deployed.
    ```

    Copy the `TXT_VALUE`.

4. Open a new terminal and export these environment variables:

    ```bash
    export DNS_DOMAIN={YOUR_DOMAIN} # example.com
    export SUB_DOMAIN={YOUR_SUBDOMAIN} # cluster (in this case the full name of your cluster is cluster.example.com)
    export RS_GROUP={YOUR_RESOURCE_GROUP_NAME}
    ```

5. Export the `TXT_VALUE`.

    ```bash
    export TXT_VALUE={YOUR_TXT_VALUE}
    ```

    To modify the TXT record for your domain, run:

    ```bash
    az network dns record-set txt delete -n "_acme-challenge.$SUB_DOMAIN" -g $RS_GROUP -z $DNS_DOMAIN --yes
    az network dns record-set txt create -n "_acme-challenge.$SUB_DOMAIN" -g $RS_GROUP -z $DNS_DOMAIN --ttl 60 > /dev/null
    az network dns record-set txt add-record -n "_acme-challenge.$SUB_DOMAIN" -g $RS_GROUP -z $DNS_DOMAIN --value $TXT_VALUE
    ```

6. Go back to the first console, wait for about 2 minutes and press **Enter**.

7. Export the certificate and the key as environment variables. Run these commands:

    ```bash
    export TLS_CERT=$(cat ./letsencrypt/live/$SUB_DOMAIN.$DNS_DOMAIN/fullchain.pem | base64 | sed 's/ /\\ /g')
    export TLS_KEY=$(cat ./letsencrypt/live/$SUB_DOMAIN.$DNS_DOMAIN/privkey.pem | base64 | sed 's/ /\\ /g')
    ```

  </details>

</div>

## Prepare the cluster

<div tabs name="prepare-cluster" group="use-your-own-domain">
  <details>
  <summary label="GKE">
  GKE
  </summary>

1. Select a name for your cluster. Export the cluster name and the [zone](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/regions-zones/) you want to deploy to as environment variables. Run:

   ```bash
   export CLUSTER_NAME={YOUR_CLUSTER_NAME}
   export GCP_ZONE={GCP_ZONE_TO_DEPLOY_TO}
   ```

2. Create a cluster in the defined zone. Run:

   ```bash
   gcloud container --project "$GCP_PROJECT" clusters \
   create "$CLUSTER_NAME" --zone "$GCP_ZONE" \
   --cluster-version "1.15" --machine-type "n1-standard-4" \
   --addons HorizontalPodAutoscaling,HttpLoadBalancing
   ```
    >**NOTE**: Kyma offers the production profile. Change the value of `machine-type` to `n1-standard-8` or `c2-standard-8` if you want to use it.

3. Configure kubectl to use your new cluster. Run:

   ```bash
   gcloud container clusters get-credentials $CLUSTER_NAME --zone $GCP_ZONE --project $GCP_PROJECT
   ```

4. Add your account as the cluster administrator:

   ```bash
   kubectl create clusterrolebinding cluster-admin-binding --clusterrole=cluster-admin --user=$(gcloud config get-value account)
   ```

5. Install custom installation overrides for your DNS domain and TLC certifcates. Run:

   ```bash
   kubectl create namespace kyma-installer \
   && kubectl create configmap owndomain-overrides -n kyma-installer --from-literal=global.domainName=$DOMAIN --from-literal=global.tlsCrt=$TLS_CERT --from-literal=global.tlsKey=$TLS_KEY \
   && kubectl label configmap owndomain-overrides -n kyma-installer installer=overrides
   ```

>**TIP:** An example config map is available [here](./assets/owndomain-overrides.yaml).

  </details>
  <details>
  <summary label="AKS">
  AKS
  </summary>

1. Select a name for your cluster. Set the cluster name, the resource group and region as environment variables. Run:

    ```bash
    export RS_GROUP={YOUR_RESOURCE_GROUP_NAME}
    export CLUSTER_NAME={YOUR_CLUSTER_NAME}
    export REGION={YOUR_REGION} #westeurope
    ```

2. Create a resource group for all your resources:

    ```bash
    az group create --name $RS_GROUP --location $REGION
    ```

3. Create an AKS cluster. Run:

    ```bash
    az aks create \
      --resource-group $RS_GROUP \
      --name $CLUSTER_NAME \
      --node-vm-size "Standard_D4_v3" \
      --kubernetes-version 1.15.7 \
      --enable-addons "monitoring,http_application_routing" \
      --generate-ssh-keys \
      --max-pods 110
    ```
   >**NOTE**: Kyma offers the production profile. Change the value of `node-vm-size` to `Standard_F8s_v2` or `Standard_D8_v3` if you want to use it.

4. To configure kubectl to use your new cluster, run:

    ```bash
    az aks get-credentials --resource-group $RS_GROUP --name $CLUSTER_NAME
    ```

5. Add additional privileges to be able to access readiness probes endpoints on your AKS cluster.

    ```bash
    kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kyma-project/kyma/$KYMA_RELEASE_VERSION/installation/resources/azure-crb-for-healthz.yaml
    ```

6. Install custom installation overrides for AKS, your DNS domain and TLC certifcates. Run:

    ```bash
    kubectl create namespace kyma-installer \
    && kubectl create configmap owndomain-overrides -n kyma-installer --from-literal=global.domainName=$DOMAIN --from-literal=global.tlsCrt=$TLS_CERT --from-literal=global.tlsKey=$TLS_KEY \
    && kubectl label configmap owndomain-overrides -n kyma-installer installer=overrides
    ```

>**CAUTION:** If you define your own Kubernetes jobs on the AKS cluster, follow [this](/components/service-mesh/#troubleshooting-kubernetes-jobs-fail-on-aks) troubleshooting guide to avoid jobs running endlessly on AKS deployments of Kyma.

  </details>

</div>

## Install Kyma

1. Install Tiller on the cluster you provisioned. Run:

   ```bash
   kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kyma-project/kyma/$KYMA_VERSION/installation/resources/tiller.yaml
   ```
   >**NOTE**: If you want to use the Kyma production profile, see the following documents before you go to the next step:
      >* [Istio production profile](/components/service-mesh/#configuration-service-mesh-production-profile)
      >* [OAuth2 server production profile](/components/security/#configuration-o-auth2-server-profiles)

2. Deploy Kyma. Run:

    ```bash
    kubectl apply -f https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/releases/download/$KYMA_VERSION/kyma-installer-cluster.yaml
    ```

3. Check if the Pods of Tiller and the Kyma Installer are running:

    ```bash
    kubectl get pods --all-namespaces
    ```

4. To watch the installation progress, run:

    ```bash
    while true; do \
      kubectl -n default get installation/kyma-installation -o jsonpath="{'Status: '}{.status.state}{', description: '}{.status.description}"; echo; \
      sleep 5; \
    done
    ```

After the installation process is finished, the `Status: Installed, description: Kyma installed` message appears.

If you receive an error, fetch the Kyma Installer logs using this command:

```bash
kubectl -n kyma-installer logs -l 'name=kyma-installer'
```

## Configure DNS for the cluster load balancer

<div tabs name="configure-dns" group="use-your-own-domain">
  <details>
  <summary label="GKE">
  GKE
  </summary>

To add DNS entries, run these commands:

```bash
export EXTERNAL_PUBLIC_IP=$(kubectl get service -n istio-system istio-ingressgateway -o jsonpath="{.status.loadBalancer.ingress[0].ip}")

export APISERVER_PUBLIC_IP=$(kubectl get service -n kyma-system apiserver-proxy-ssl -o jsonpath="{.status.loadBalancer.ingress[0].ip}")

gcloud dns --project=$GCP_PROJECT record-sets transaction start --zone=$DNS_ZONE

gcloud dns --project=$GCP_PROJECT record-sets transaction add $EXTERNAL_PUBLIC_IP --name=\*.$DOMAIN. --ttl=60 --type=A --zone=$DNS_ZONE

gcloud dns --project=$GCP_PROJECT record-sets transaction add $APISERVER_PUBLIC_IP --name=\apiserver.$DOMAIN. --ttl=60 --type=A --zone=$DNS_ZONE

gcloud dns --project=$GCP_PROJECT record-sets transaction execute --zone=$DNS_ZONE
```

  </details>
  <details>
  <summary label="AKS">
  AKS
  </summary>

To add DNS entries, run these commands:

```bash
export EXTERNAL_PUBLIC_IP=$(kubectl get service -n istio-system istio-ingressgateway -o jsonpath="{.status.loadBalancer.ingress[0].ip}")

export APISERVER_PUBLIC_IP=$(kubectl get service -n kyma-system apiserver-proxy-ssl -o jsonpath="{.status.loadBalancer.ingress[0].ip}")

az network dns record-set a create -g $RS_GROUP -z $DNS_DOMAIN -n \*.$SUB_DOMAIN --ttl 60
az network dns record-set a add-record -g $RS_GROUP -z $DNS_DOMAIN -n \*.$SUB_DOMAIN -a $EXTERNAL_PUBLIC_IP

az network dns record-set a create -g $RS_GROUP -z $DNS_DOMAIN -n apiserver.$SUB_DOMAIN --ttl 60
az network dns record-set a add-record -g $RS_GROUP -z $DNS_DOMAIN -n apiserver.$SUB_DOMAIN -a $APISERVER_PUBLIC_IP
```

  </details>

</div>

### Access the cluster

1. To get the address of the cluster's Console, check the host of the Console's virtual service. The name of the host of this virtual service corresponds to the Console URL. To get the virtual service host, run:

    ```bash
    kubectl get virtualservice core-console -n kyma-system -o jsonpath='{ .spec.hosts[0] }'
    ```

2. Access your cluster under this address:

    ```bash
    https://{VIRTUAL_SERVICE_HOST}
    ```

3. To log in to your cluster's Console UI, use the default `admin` static user. Click **Login with Email** and sign in with the **admin@kyma.cx** email address. Use the password contained in the `admin-user` Secret located in the `kyma-system` Namespace. To get the password, run:

    ```bash
    kubectl get secret admin-user -n kyma-system -o jsonpath="{.data.password}" | base64 --decode
    ```
