docs/kyma/05-04-component-source-url.md, before:

---
title: Install components from user-defined URLs
type: Configuration
---

The Kyma Operator allows you to use external URLs as sources for the components you decide to install Kyma with. Using this mechanism, you can install Kyma with a customized component, which you store in GitHub or as a `.zip` or `.tgz` archive on a server, and use the officially released sources for other components.

To install a component using an external URL as the source, you must add the **source.url** attribute to the entry of a component in the [Installation custom resource](#custom-resource-installation) (CR).

The address must expose the `Chart.yaml` of the component directly. This means that for Git repositories or archives that do not store this file at the top level, you must specify the path to the file.

To specify the exact location of the `Chart.yaml`, append it to the URL beginning with two backslashes `//` to indicate the path within the archive or repository. See these sample entries for components with user-defined source URLs from the Installation CR for more details:

<div tabs>
  <details>
  <summary>
  Archive URL
  </summary>

  - Archive with `Chart.yaml` at the top level:
    ```
    - name: "ory"
      namespace: "kyma-system"
      source:
        url: https://hosting.com/your-user/files/kyma-custom-ory.zip
    ```


  - Archive with `Chart.yaml` deeper in the file structure:
    ```
    - name: "ory"
      namespace: "kyma-system"
      source:
        url: https://hosting.com/your-user/files/kyma-custom-ory.zip//kyma-custom/resources/ory
    ```

    >**NOTE:** If the access to the URL is secured with a basic authentication mechanism, prepend the login and password to the URL following the `login:password@` format, for example: `https://user:pass@hosting.com/your-user/files/kyma-custom-ory.zip` For more details, see [this](https://github.com/hashicorp/go-getter#http-http) document.

  </details>
  <details>
  <summary>
  Git repository URL
  </summary>

  >**TIP:** To get the repository URL suitable for the Installation CR, use the HTTPS address available through the GitHub web UI and remove `https://`.

  - Repository with `Chart.yaml` at the top level:
    ```
    - name: "cluster-essentials"
      namespace: "kyma-system"
      source:
        url: github.com/my-project/kyma.git
    ```

  - Repository with `Chart.yaml` deeper in the file structure:
    ```
    - name: "cluster-essentials"
      namespace: "kyma-system"
      source:
        url: github.com/my-project/kyma.git//resources/cluster-essentials
    ```

  </details>

</div>

>**NOTE:** Read [this](#custom-resource-installation) document to learn more about the Installation CR.

### Error handling and retry policy

If you specify an external URL as a source for a Kyma component, the Kyma Operator attempts to access it three times during the installation process. If it fails to reach the specified URL in one of the three attempts or fails to find the required files, the installation step fails and the entire installation process starts over.

There is no fallback mechanism implemented. This means that in a case where the Operator fails to install a component using a custom URL, the installation step always fails, even if the component sources are included in the Kyma Installer image.

Commit message:

Update docs after the change of retry logic in Installer (#7385)
Co-authored-by: Tomasz Smelcerz <tomasz.smelcerz@sap.com>
Co-authored-by: majakurcius <maja.kurcius@sap.com>

docs/kyma/05-04-component-source-url.md, after:

---
title: Install components from user-defined URLs
type: Configuration
---

The Kyma Operator allows you to use external URLs as sources for the components you decide to install Kyma with. Using this mechanism, you can install Kyma with a customized component, which you store in GitHub or as a `.zip` or `.tgz` archive on a server, and use the officially released sources for other components.

To install a component using an external URL as the source, you must add the **source.url** attribute to the entry of a component in the [Installation custom resource](#custom-resource-installation) (CR).

The address must expose the `Chart.yaml` of the component directly. This means that for Git repositories or archives that do not store this file at the top level, you must specify the path to the file.

To specify the exact location of the `Chart.yaml`, append it to the URL beginning with two backslashes `//` to indicate the path within the archive or repository. See these sample entries for components with user-defined source URLs from the Installation CR for more details:

<div tabs>
  <details>
  <summary>
  Archive URL
  </summary>

  - Archive with `Chart.yaml` at the top level:
    ```
    - name: "ory"
      namespace: "kyma-system"
      source:
        url: https://hosting.com/your-user/files/kyma-custom-ory.zip
    ```


  - Archive with `Chart.yaml` deeper in the file structure:
    ```
    - name: "ory"
      namespace: "kyma-system"
      source:
        url: https://hosting.com/your-user/files/kyma-custom-ory.zip//kyma-custom/resources/ory
    ```

    >**NOTE:** If the access to the URL is secured with a basic authentication mechanism, prepend the login and password to the URL following the `login:password@` format, for example: `https://user:pass@hosting.com/your-user/files/kyma-custom-ory.zip` For more details, see [this](https://github.com/hashicorp/go-getter#http-http) document.

  </details>
  <details>
  <summary>
  Git repository URL
  </summary>

  >**TIP:** To get the repository URL suitable for the Installation CR, use the HTTPS address available through the GitHub web UI and remove `https://`.

  - Repository with `Chart.yaml` at the top level:
    ```
    - name: "cluster-essentials"
      namespace: "kyma-system"
      source:
        url: github.com/my-project/kyma.git
    ```

  - Repository with `Chart.yaml` deeper in the file structure:
    ```
    - name: "cluster-essentials"
      namespace: "kyma-system"
      source:
        url: github.com/my-project/kyma.git//resources/cluster-essentials
    ```

  </details>

</div>

>**NOTE:** Read [this](#custom-resource-installation) document to learn more about the Installation CR.

### Error handling and retry policy

If you specify an external URL as a source for a Kyma component, the Kyma Operator attempts to access it three times during the installation process. If it fails to reach the specified URL in one of the three attempts, or fails to find the required files, the installation step fails and the component installation is repeated according to the default installation retry process.

There is no fallback mechanism implemented. This means that in a case where the Operator fails to install a component using a custom URL, the installation step always fails, even if the component sources are included in the Kyma Installer image.
