docs/security/03-06-oauth2-server.md, before:

---
title: OAuth2 and OpenID Connect server
type: Details
---

By default, every Kyma deployment comes with an OAuth2 authorization server solution from [ORY](https://www.ory.sh/). The `ory` [component](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/tree/master/resources/ory) consists of four elements:

- [Hydra](https://github.com/ory/hydra) OAuth2 and OpenID Connect server which issues access, refresh, and ID tokens to registered clients which call services in a Kyma cluster.
- [Oathkeeper](https://github.com/ory/oathkeeper) authorization & authentication proxy which authenticates and authorizes incoming requests basing on the list of defined [Access Rules](https://www.ory.sh/docs/oathkeeper/api-access-rules).
- [Oathkeeper Maester](https://github.com/ory/oathkeeper-maester) Kubernetes controller which feeds Access Rules to the Oathkeeper proxy by creating or updating the Oathkeeper ConfigMap and populating it with rules found in instances of the `rules.oathkeeper.ory.sh/v1alpha1` custom resource.
- [Hydra Maester](https://github.com/ory/hydra-maester) Kubernetes controller which manages OAuth2 clients by communicating the data found in instances of the `oauth2clients.hydra.ory.sh` custom resource to the ORY Hydra API.

Out of the box, the Kyma implementation of the ORY stack supports the [OAuth 2.0 Client Credentials Grant](https://www.oauth.com/oauth2-servers/access-tokens/client-credentials/).

>**NOTE:** The implementation of the ORY Oauth2 server in Kyma is still in the early stages and is subject to changes and development. Read [this](https://kyma-project.io/blog/2019/7/31/kyma-collaboration-with-ory/) blog post to get a better understanding of the target integration of the ORY stack in Kyma.

## Register an OAuth2 client

To interact with the Kyma OAuth2 server, you must register an OAuth2 client. To register a client, create an instance of the OAuth2Client custom resource (CR) which triggers the Hydra Maester controller to send a client registration request to the OAuth2 server.  

For each client, you can provide client ID and secret. If you don't provide the credentials, Hydra generates a random client ID and secret pair.
Client credentials are stored as Kubernetes Secret in the same Namespace as the CR instances of the corresponding clients.

### Use your own credentials

1. Create a Kubernetes Secret that contains the client ID and secret you want to use to create a client:

   ```
   apiVersion: v1
   kind: Secret
   metadata:
     name: {NAME_OF_SECRET}
     namespace: {CLIENT_NAMESPACE}
   type: Opaque
   data:
     client_id: {BASE64_ENCODED_ID}
     client_secret: {BASE64_ENCODED_PASSWORD}
   ```

2. Create a CR with the **secretName** property set to the name of Kubernetes Secret you created. Run this command to trigger the creation of a client:

   ```
   cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
   apiVersion: hydra.ory.sh/v1alpha1
   kind: OAuth2Client
   metadata:
     name: {NAME_OF_CLIENT}
     namespace: {CLIENT_NAMESPACE}
   spec:
     grantTypes:
       - "client_credentials"
     scope: "read write"
     secretName: {NAME_OF_SECRET}
   EOF
   ```

### Use Hydra-generated credentials

Run this command to create a CR that triggers the creation of a client. The OAuth2 server generates a client ID and secret pair and saves it to a Kubernetes secret with the name specified in the **secretName** property.

```
cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: hydra.ory.sh/v1alpha1
kind: OAuth2Client
metadata:
  name: {NAME_OF_CLIENT}
  namespace: {CLIENT_NAMESPACE}
spec:
  grantTypes:
    - "client_credentials"
  scope: "read write"
  secretName: {NAME_OF_KUBERNETES_SECRET}
EOF
```

### Get the registered client credentials

Run this command to get the credentials of the registered OAuth2 client:

```
kubectl get secret -n {CLIENT_NAMESPACE} {NAME_OF_KUBERNETES_SECRET} -o yaml
```

### Update the OAuth2 client credentials

If the credentials of your OAuth2 client are compromised, follow these steps to change them to a new pair:

1. Create a new Kubernetes Secret with a new client ID and client secret.
2. Edit the instance of the client's corresponding `oauth2clients.hydra.ory.sh/v1alpha1` CR by replacing the value of the **SecretName** property with the name of the newly created Secret.

>**TIP:** When you complete these steps, remember to delete the Secret that stores the old client credentials.

## OAuth2 server in action

To see the OAuth2 server in action, complete [this](/components/api-gateway-v2/#tutorials-tutorials) tutorial which shows you how to expose a service, secure it with OAuth2 tokens, and interact with it using the registered client.  

You can also interact with the OAuth2 server using its REST API. Read the official [ORY documentation](https://www.ory.sh/docs/hydra/sdk/api) to learn more about the available endpoints.

>**TIP:** If you have any questions about the ORY-Kyma integration, you can ask them on the **#security** [Slack channel](http://slack.kyma-project.io/) and get answers directly from Kyma developers.

Commit message:

Add information about redirect URIs for OAuth2 clients (#6501)

docs/security/03-06-oauth2-server.md, after:

---
title: OAuth2 and OpenID Connect server
type: Details
---

By default, every Kyma deployment comes with an OAuth2 authorization server solution from [ORY](https://www.ory.sh/). The `ory` [component](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/tree/master/resources/ory) consists of four elements:

- [Hydra](https://github.com/ory/hydra) OAuth2 and OpenID Connect server which issues access, refresh, and ID tokens to registered clients which call services in a Kyma cluster.
- [Oathkeeper](https://github.com/ory/oathkeeper) authorization & authentication proxy which authenticates and authorizes incoming requests basing on the list of defined [Access Rules](https://www.ory.sh/docs/oathkeeper/api-access-rules).
- [Oathkeeper Maester](https://github.com/ory/oathkeeper-maester) Kubernetes controller which feeds Access Rules to the Oathkeeper proxy by creating or updating the Oathkeeper ConfigMap and populating it with rules found in instances of the `rules.oathkeeper.ory.sh/v1alpha1` custom resource.
- [Hydra Maester](https://github.com/ory/hydra-maester) Kubernetes controller which manages OAuth2 clients by communicating the data found in instances of the `oauth2clients.hydra.ory.sh` custom resource to the ORY Hydra API.

Out of the box, the Kyma implementation of the ORY stack supports the [OAuth 2.0 Client Credentials Grant](https://www.oauth.com/oauth2-servers/access-tokens/client-credentials/).

>**NOTE:** The implementation of the ORY Oauth2 server in Kyma is still in the early stages and is subject to changes and development. Read [this](https://kyma-project.io/blog/2019/7/31/kyma-collaboration-with-ory/) blog post to get a better understanding of the target integration of the ORY stack in Kyma.

## Register an OAuth2 client

To interact with the Kyma OAuth2 server, you must register an OAuth2 client. To register a client, create an instance of the OAuth2Client custom resource (CR) which triggers the Hydra Maester controller to send a client registration request to the OAuth2 server.

When you register an OAuth2 client, you can set its redirect URI used in user-facing flows. To add a redirect URI for the client you register, use the optional **spec.redirectUris** property. For more details, see the full ORY [OAuth2Client Custom Resource Definition](https://github.com/ory/hydra-maester/blob/master/config/crd/bases/hydra.ory.sh_oauth2clients.yaml)(CRD).   

For each client, you can provide client ID and secret. If you don't provide the credentials, Hydra generates a random client ID and secret pair.
Client credentials are stored as Kubernetes Secret in the same Namespace as the CR instances of the corresponding clients.

### Use your own credentials

1. Create a Kubernetes Secret that contains the client ID and secret you want to use to create a client:

   ```
   apiVersion: v1
   kind: Secret
   metadata:
     name: {NAME_OF_SECRET}
     namespace: {CLIENT_NAMESPACE}
   type: Opaque
   data:
     client_id: {BASE64_ENCODED_ID}
     client_secret: {BASE64_ENCODED_PASSWORD}
   ```

2. Create a CR with the **secretName** property set to the name of Kubernetes Secret you created. Run this command to trigger the creation of a client:

   ```
   cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
   apiVersion: hydra.ory.sh/v1alpha1
   kind: OAuth2Client
   metadata:
     name: {NAME_OF_CLIENT}
     namespace: {CLIENT_NAMESPACE}
   spec:
     grantTypes:
       - "client_credentials"
     scope: "read write"
     secretName: {NAME_OF_SECRET}
     redirectUris: ["{URI1}" , "{URI2}"]
   EOF
   ```

   >**NOTE:** This sample OAuth2Client CR has a redirect URI defined through the optional **spec.redirectUris** property. See [this](https://github.com/ory/hydra-maester/blob/master/config/crd/bases/hydra.ory.sh_oauth2clients.yaml) CRD for more details.  

### Use Hydra-generated credentials

Run this command to create a CR that triggers the creation of a client. The OAuth2 server generates a client ID and secret pair and saves it to a Kubernetes secret with the name specified in the **secretName** property.

```
cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: hydra.ory.sh/v1alpha1
kind: OAuth2Client
metadata:
  name: {NAME_OF_CLIENT}
  namespace: {CLIENT_NAMESPACE}
spec:
  grantTypes:
    - "client_credentials"
  scope: "read write"
  secretName: {NAME_OF_KUBERNETES_SECRET}
EOF
```

### Get the registered client credentials

Run this command to get the credentials of the registered OAuth2 client:

```
kubectl get secret -n {CLIENT_NAMESPACE} {NAME_OF_KUBERNETES_SECRET} -o yaml
```

### Update the OAuth2 client credentials

If the credentials of your OAuth2 client are compromised, follow these steps to change them to a new pair:

1. Create a new Kubernetes Secret with a new client ID and client secret.
2. Edit the instance of the client's corresponding `oauth2clients.hydra.ory.sh/v1alpha1` CR by replacing the value of the **SecretName** property with the name of the newly created Secret.

>**TIP:** When you complete these steps, remember to delete the Secret that stores the old client credentials.

## OAuth2 server in action

To see the OAuth2 server in action, complete [this](/components/api-gateway-v2/#tutorials-tutorials) tutorial which shows you how to expose a service, secure it with OAuth2 tokens, and interact with it using the registered client.  

You can also interact with the OAuth2 server using its REST API. Read the official [ORY documentation](https://www.ory.sh/docs/hydra/sdk/api) to learn more about the available endpoints.

>**TIP:** If you have any questions about the ORY-Kyma integration, you can ask them on the **#security** [Slack channel](http://slack.kyma-project.io/) and get answers directly from Kyma developers.
