---
title: Permission-controller
type: Details
---

As described in the [Roles in Kyma](#details-roles-in-kyma) section, Kyma offers a variety of predefined roles that you can assign to users or user groups to manage authorizations within your Kubernetes cluster. Access to a specific Namespace can be granted by creating a RoleBinding, but sometimes it's easier to specify a subset of Namespaces that should not be reachable by certain users. This approach is useful when you want to restrict access to sensitive areas of your cluster, e.g. Kubernetes control plane, without limiting users' privileges in custom Namespaces. Unfortunately, RBAC authorization model does not provide a mechanism for restricting a ClusterRole to specific Namespaces. This means such a level of isolation can be achieved only by creating a RoleBinding every time a new Namespace appears. To reduce manual configuration, Kyma comes with a built-in feature that automatically grants members of specified user groups administrative rights in all Namespaces except those you explicitly exclude from the component's workflow.

Under the hood, Permission-controller is a Kubernetes controller that watches for instances of `Namespace core/v1` objects and configures RBAC by creating and updating objects of type `rolebindings.rbac.authorization.k8s.io`. By default, members of the `namespace-admins` group are granted administrative privileges in the Namespaces that don't host Kubernetes-native or Kyma-specific components. See [this document](#configuration-permission-controller-chart) to learn how to customize Permission-controller.