docs/security/03-05-roles-in-kyma.md, before:

---
title: Roles in Kyma
type: Details
---

Kyma uses roles and groups to manage access in the cluster. Every cluster comes with five predefined roles which give the assigned users different level of permissions suitable for different purposes.
These roles are defined as ClusterRoles and use the Kubernetes mechanism of aggregation which allows you to combine multiple ClusterRoles into a single ClusterRole. Use the aggregation mechanism to efficiently manage access to Kubernetes and Kyma-specific resources.

>**NOTE:** Read [this](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/#aggregated-clusterroles) Kubernetes documentation to learn more about the aggregation mechanism used to define Kyma roles.

You can assign any of the predefined roles to a user or to a group of users in the context of:  
  - The entire cluster by creating a [ClusterRoleBinding](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/#rolebinding-and-clusterrolebinding)
  - A specific Namespace by creating a [RoleBinding](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/#rolebinding-and-clusterrolebinding)

>**TIP:** To ensure proper Namespace separation, use [RoleBindings](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/#rolebinding-and-clusterrolebinding) to give users access to the cluster. This way a group or a user can have different permissions in different Namespaces.

The predefined roles, arranged in the order of increasing access level, are:

| Role | Description |
| --- | --- |
| **kyma-essentials** | The basic role required to allow the users to see the Console UI of the cluster. This role doesn't give the user rights to modify any resources. |
| **kyma-view** | The role for listing Kubernetes and Kyma-specific resources. |
| **kyma-edit** | The role for editing Kyma-specific resources.  |
| **kyma-developer** | The role created for developers who build implementations using Kyma. It allows you to list and edit Kubernetes and Kyma-specific resources. |
| **kyma-admin** | The role with the highest permission level which gives access to all Kubernetes and Kyma resources and components with administrative rights. |

>**CAUTION:** To give a user the **kyma-developer** role permissions in a Namespace, create a RoleBinding to the **kyma-developer** role and a ClusterRoleBinding to the **kyma-essentials** role. 

To learn more about the default roles and how they are constructed, see [this](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/blob/master/resources/core/charts/cluster-users/templates/rbac-roles.yaml) file.

Commit message:

Permission-controller documentation (#6951)
* Add README.md files

* adjust existing documentation

* add permission-controller details

* fixes

* share namespaceAdmin.groups with the cluster-users chart

* Szop

* Update 01-01-security.md

* Update 03-08-permission-controller.md

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-Authored-By: Tomasz Papiernik <tomasz.papiernik@sap.com>

* update links to satisfy governance checks

* Update docs/security/03-08-permission-controller.md

* fix2

* rename values

* Update 03-08-permission-controller.md

* Update 05-05-permission-controller.md

* Update 05-05-permission-controller.md

* Update README.md

* Update README.md

* fix binding to developer group

Co-authored-by: Tomasz Papiernik <tomasz.papiernik@sap.com>
Co-authored-by: Piotr Mścichowski <piotr.mscichowski@sap.com>

docs/security/03-05-roles-in-kyma.md, after:

---
title: Roles in Kyma
type: Details
---

Kyma uses roles and groups to manage access in the cluster. Every cluster comes with five predefined roles which give the assigned users different level of permissions suitable for different purposes.
These roles are defined as ClusterRoles and use the Kubernetes mechanism of aggregation which allows you to combine multiple ClusterRoles into a single ClusterRole. Use the aggregation mechanism to efficiently manage access to Kubernetes and Kyma-specific resources.

>**NOTE:** Read [this](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/#aggregated-clusterroles) Kubernetes documentation to learn more about the aggregation mechanism used to define Kyma roles.

You can assign any of the predefined roles to a user or to a group of users in the context of:  
  - The entire cluster by creating a [ClusterRoleBinding](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/#rolebinding-and-clusterrolebinding)
  - A specific Namespace by creating a [RoleBinding](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/#rolebinding-and-clusterrolebinding)

>**TIP:** To ensure proper Namespace separation, use [RoleBindings](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/#rolebinding-and-clusterrolebinding) to give users access to the cluster. This way a group or a user can have different permissions in different Namespaces.

The predefined roles are:

| Role | Description |
| --- | --- |
| **kyma-essentials** | The basic role required to allow the users to see the Console UI of the cluster. This role doesn't give the user rights to modify any resources. |
| **kyma-namespace-admin-essentials** | The role that allows the user to see the Console UI and create Namespaces, built on top of the**kyma-essentials** role. Used to give the members of selected groups the ability to create Namespaces in which the Permission Controller binds them to the **kyma-admin** role. For more details, read [this](#details-permission-controller) document.  |
| **kyma-view** | The role for listing Kubernetes and Kyma-specific resources. |
| **kyma-edit** | The role for editing Kyma-specific resources. |
| **kyma-developer** | The role created for developers who build implementations using Kyma. It allows you to list and edit Kubernetes and Kyma-specific resources. |
| **kyma-admin** | The role with the highest permission level which gives access to all Kubernetes and Kyma resources and components with administrative rights. |

To learn more about the default roles and how they are constructed, see [this](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/blob/master/resources/core/charts/cluster-users/templates/rbac-roles.yaml) file.
