docs/security/05-05-production-profile.md, before:

---
title: OAuth2 server production profile
type: Configuration
---

By default, every Kyma deployment is installed with the OAuth2 server using what is considered a development profile. In the case of the ORY Hydra OAuth2 server, this means that:
  - Hydra works in the "in-memory" mode and saves the registered OAuth2 clients in its memory, without the use of persistent storage.
  - Similarly to other Kyma components, it has an Istio sidecar Pod injected.

This configuration is not considered production-ready. To use the Kyma OAuth2 server in a production environment, configure Hydra to use the production profile.

## The production profile

The production profile introduces the following changes to the Hydra OAuth2 server deployment:
   - Persistence is enabled for Hydra; the registered client data is saved in an in-cluster database or in a user-created, external database.
   - The Hydra OAuth2 server and the Hydra Maester controller have Istio sidecars disabled, destinationRule custom resources are created for these components.
   - A job that reads the generated database credentials and saves them to the configuration of Hydra is added.

### Persistence

The production profile for the OAuth2 server enables persistence and creates a database in which Hydra saves the registered OAuth2 clients. When you configure Hydra to use the production profile, a PostgreSQL database is installed
using the [official charts](https://github.com/helm/charts/tree/master/stable/postgresql).
The database is created in the cluster as a StatefulSet and uses a PersistentVolume that is provider-specific. This means that the PersistentVolume used by the database uses the default StorageClass of the cluster's host provider.

Alternatively, you can use a compatible external database to store the registered client data. To use an external database, you must create a Kubernetes Secret with the database password in the same Namespace as the Hydra OAuth2 server. The details of the external database are passed through these parameters of the production profile override:

| Parameter |  Description |
|----------|------|
| **data.postgresql.enabled** | Defines if Hydra should initiate the deployment of an in-cluster database. Set to `false` to use an external database. If set to `true`, Hydra always uses an in-cluster database and ignores the external database details. |
| **global.ory.hydra.persitance.enabled** | Defines if Hydra should use the `in-memory` or `database` mode of operation |
| **data.global.ory.hydra.persitance.user** | Specifies the name of the user with permissions to access the database. |
| **data.global.ory.hydra.persitance.secretName** | Specifies the name of the Secret in the same Namespace as Hydra that stores the database password. |
| **data.global.ory.hydra.persitance.secretKey** | Specifies the name of the key in the Secret that contains the database password. |
| **data.global.ory.hydra.persitance.dbUrl** | Specifies the database URL. For more information, read [this](https://github.com/ory/hydra/blob/master/docs/config.yaml) document. |
| **data.global.ory.hydra.persitance.dbName** | Specifies the name of the database saved in Hydra. |
| **data.global.ory.hydra.persitance.dbType** | Specifies the type of the external database. The supported protocols are `postgres`, `mysql`, `cockroach`. Follow [this](https://github.com/ory/hydra/blob/master/docs/config.yaml) link for more information. |

## Use the production profile

You can deploy a Kyma cluster with the Hydra OAuth2 server configured to use the production profile, or configure Hydra in a running cluster to use the production profile. Follow these steps:

<div tabs>
  <details>
  <summary>
  Install Kyma with production-ready Hydra
  </summary>
  >**NOTE:** This configuration installs a PorstgreSQL database in the Kyma cluster.

  1. Create an appropriate Kubernetes cluster for Kyma in your host environment.
  2. Apply an override that forces the Hydra OAuth2 server to use the production profile. Run:
    ```bash
    cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
    apiVersion: v1
    kind: ConfigMap
    metadata:
      name: ory-overrides
      namespace: kyma-installer
      labels:
        installer: overrides
        component: ory
        kyma-project.io/installation: ""
    data:
      postgresql.enabled: "true"
      hydra.hydra.autoMigrate: "true"
      global.ory.hydra.persitance.enabled: "true"
    EOF
    ```
  3. Install Kyma on the cluster.

  </details>
  <details>
  <summary>
  Enable production profile in a running cluster
  </summary>

  >**CAUTION:** When you configure Hydra to use the production profile in a running cluster, you lose all registered clients. Using the production profile restarts the Hydra Pod, which wipes the entire "in-memory" storage used to save the registered client data by default.

  >**NOTE:** This configuration installs a PorstgreSQL database in the Kyma cluster.

  1. Apply an override that forces the Hydra OAuth2 server to use the production profile. Run:
    ```bash
    cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
    apiVersion: v1
    kind: ConfigMap
    metadata:
      name: ory-overrides
      namespace: kyma-installer
      labels:
        installer: overrides
        component: ory
        kyma-project.io/installation: ""
    data:
      postgresql.enabled: "true"
      hydra.hydra.autoMigrate: "true"
      global.ory.hydra.persitance.enabled: "true"
    EOF
    ```
  2. Run the cluster [update procedure](/root/kyma/#installation-update-kyma).


  </details>

</div>

Commit message:

Add information about oathkeeper overrides

docs/security/05-05-production-profile.md, after:

---
title: OAuth2 server production profile
type: Configuration
---

By default, every Kyma deployment is installed with the OAuth2 server using what is considered a development profile. In the case of the ORY Hydra OAuth2 server, this means that:
  - Hydra works in the "in-memory" mode and saves the registered OAuth2 clients in its memory, without the use of persistent storage.
  - Similarly to other Kyma components, it has an Istio sidecar Pod injected.

This configuration is not considered production-ready. To use the Kyma OAuth2 server in a production environment, configure Hydra to use the production profile.

## The production profile

The production profile introduces the following changes to the Hydra OAuth2 server deployment:
   - Persistence is enabled for Hydra; the registered client data is saved in an in-cluster database or in a user-created, external database.
   - The Hydra OAuth2 server and the Hydra Maester controller have Istio sidecars disabled, destinationRule custom resources are created for these components.
   - A job that reads the generated database credentials and saves them to the configuration of Hydra is added.
   
Additionally, the Oathkeeper have raised CPU limits and requests. It starts with more replicas and can scale up horizontally to higher amounts.

**Oathkeeper settings:**

| Parameter |  Description | Example value |
|-------|-------|:--------:|
| **oathkeeper.deployment.resources.limits.cpu** | Defines limits for CPU resources. | `800m` |
| **oathkeeper.deployment.resources.requests.cpu** | Defines requests for CPU resources. | `200m` |
| **hpa.oathkeeper.minReplicas** |  Defines the initial number of created Oathkeeper instances. | `3` |
| **hpa.oathkeeper.maxReplicas** | Defines the maximum number of created Oathkeeper instances. | `10` |

### Persistence

The production profile for the OAuth2 server enables persistence and creates a database in which Hydra saves the registered OAuth2 clients. When you configure Hydra to use the production profile, a PostgreSQL database is installed
using the [official charts](https://github.com/helm/charts/tree/master/stable/postgresql).
The database is created in the cluster as a StatefulSet and uses a PersistentVolume that is provider-specific. This means that the PersistentVolume used by the database uses the default StorageClass of the cluster's host provider.

Alternatively, you can use a compatible external database to store the registered client data. To use an external database, you must create a Kubernetes Secret with the database password in the same Namespace as the Hydra OAuth2 server. The details of the external database are passed through these parameters of the production profile override:

| Parameter |  Description |
|----------|------|
| **data.postgresql.enabled** | Defines if Hydra should initiate the deployment of an in-cluster database. Set to `false` to use an external database. If set to `true`, Hydra always uses an in-cluster database and ignores the external database details. |
| **global.ory.hydra.persitance.enabled** | Defines if Hydra should use the `in-memory` or `database` mode of operation |
| **data.global.ory.hydra.persitance.user** | Specifies the name of the user with permissions to access the database. |
| **data.global.ory.hydra.persitance.secretName** | Specifies the name of the Secret in the same Namespace as Hydra that stores the database password. |
| **data.global.ory.hydra.persitance.secretKey** | Specifies the name of the key in the Secret that contains the database password. |
| **data.global.ory.hydra.persitance.dbUrl** | Specifies the database URL. For more information, read [this](https://github.com/ory/hydra/blob/master/docs/config.yaml) document. |
| **data.global.ory.hydra.persitance.dbName** | Specifies the name of the database saved in Hydra. |
| **data.global.ory.hydra.persitance.dbType** | Specifies the type of the external database. The supported protocols are `postgres`, `mysql`, `cockroach`. Follow [this](https://github.com/ory/hydra/blob/master/docs/config.yaml) link for more information. |

## Use the production profile

You can deploy a Kyma cluster with the Hydra OAuth2 server configured to use the production profile, or configure Hydra in a running cluster to use the production profile. Follow these steps:

<div tabs>
  <details>
  <summary>
  Install Kyma with production-ready Hydra
  </summary>
  >**NOTE:** This configuration installs a PorstgreSQL database in the Kyma cluster.

  1. Create an appropriate Kubernetes cluster for Kyma in your host environment.
  2. Apply an override that forces the Hydra OAuth2 server to use the production profile. Run:
    ```bash
    cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
    apiVersion: v1
    kind: ConfigMap
    metadata:
      name: ory-overrides
      namespace: kyma-installer
      labels:
        installer: overrides
        component: ory
        kyma-project.io/installation: ""
    data:
      postgresql.enabled: "true"
      hydra.hydra.autoMigrate: "true"
      global.ory.hydra.persitance.enabled: "true"
    EOF
    ```
  3. Install Kyma on the cluster.

  </details>
  <details>
  <summary>
  Enable production profile in a running cluster
  </summary>

  >**CAUTION:** When you configure Hydra to use the production profile in a running cluster, you lose all registered clients. Using the production profile restarts the Hydra Pod, which wipes the entire "in-memory" storage used to save the registered client data by default.

  >**NOTE:** This configuration installs a PorstgreSQL database in the Kyma cluster.

  1. Apply an override that forces the Hydra OAuth2 server to use the production profile. Run:
    ```bash
    cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
    apiVersion: v1
    kind: ConfigMap
    metadata:
      name: ory-overrides
      namespace: kyma-installer
      labels:
        installer: overrides
        component: ory
        kyma-project.io/installation: ""
    data:
      postgresql.enabled: "true"
      hydra.hydra.autoMigrate: "true"
      global.ory.hydra.persitance.enabled: "true"
    EOF
    ```
  2. Run the cluster [update procedure](/root/kyma/#installation-update-kyma).


  </details>

</div>
