docs/rafter/06-02-assetgroup.md, before:

---
title: AssetGroup
type: Custom Resource
---

The `assetgroups.rafter.kyma-project.io` CustomResourceDefinition (CRD) is a detailed description of the kind of data and the format used to define an orchestrator that creates Asset CRs for a specific asset type. To get the up-to-date CRD and show the output in the YAML format, run this command:

```bash
kubectl get crd assetgroups.rafter.kyma-project.io -o yaml
```

## Sample custom resource

This is a sample AssetGroup custom resource (CR) that provides details of the Asset CRs for the **markdown**, **asyncapi**, and **openapi** source types.

```yaml
apiVersion: rafter.kyma-project.io/v1beta1
kind: AssetGroup
metadata:
  name: slack
  labels:
    rafter.kyma-project.io/view-context: service-catalog
    rafter.kyma-project.io/group-name: components
    rafter.kyma-project.io/order: "6"
spec:
  displayName: Slack
  description: "Slack documentation"
  bucketRef:
    name: test-bucket
  sources:
    - type: markdown
      name: markdown-slack
      mode: single
      parameters:
        disableRelativeLinks: "true"
      url: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/slackapi/slack-api-specs/master/README.md
    - type: asyncapi
      name: asyncapi-slack
      mode: single
      url: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/slackapi/slack-api-specs/master/events-api/slack_events_api_async_v1.json
    - type: openapi
      name: openapi-slack
      mode: single
      url: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/slackapi/slack-api-specs/master/web-api/slack_web_openapi_v2.json
status:
  lastHeartbeatTime: "2019-03-18T13:42:55Z"
  message: Assets are ready to use
  phase: Ready
  reason: AssetsReady
```

## Custom resource parameters

This table lists all possible parameters of a given resource together with their descriptions:


| Parameter   |      Required      |  Description |
|----------|:-------------:|------|
| **metadata.name** | Yes | Specifies the name of the CR. It also defines the **rafter.kyma-project.io/asset-group** label added to the Asset CR that the AssetGroup CR defines. Because of label name limitations, AssetGroup CR names can have a maximum length of 63 characters. |
| **metadata.labels** | No | Specifies how to filter and group Asset CRs that the AssetGroup CR defines. See [this](#details-rafter-in-console) document for more details. |
| **spec.displayname** | Yes | Specifies a human-readable name of the AssetGroup CR. |
| **spec.description** | Yes | Provides more details on the purpose of the AssetGroup CR. |
| **spec.bucketRef.name** | No | Specifies the name of the bucket that stores the assets from the AssetGroup. |
| **spec.sources** | Yes | Defines the type of the asset and the **rafter.kyma-project.io/type** label added to the Asset CR.  |
| **spec.sources.type** | Yes | Specifies the type of assets included in the AssetGroup CR. |
| **spec.sources.name** | Yes | Defines an identifier of a given asset. It must be unique if there is more than one asset of a given type in the AssetGroup CR. |
| **spec.sources.mode** | Yes | Specifies if the asset consists of one file or a set of compressed files in the ZIP or TAR format. Use `single` for one file and `package` for a set of files.  |
| **spec.sources.parameters** | No | Specifies a set of parameters for the asset. For example, use it to define what to render, disable, or modify in the UI. Define it in a valid YAML or JSON format. |
| **spec.sources.url** | Yes | Specifies the location of a single file or a package. |
| **spec.sources.filter** | No | Specifies a set of assets from the package to upload. The regex used in the filter must be [RE2](https://golang.org/s/re2syntax)-compliant. |
| **status.lastheartbeattime** | Not applicable | Provides the last time when the AssetGroup Controller processed the AssetGroup CR. |
| **status.message** | Not applicable | Describes a human-readable message on the CR processing progress, success, or failure. |
| **status.phase** | Not applicable | The AssetGroup Controller adds it to the AssetGroup CR. It describes the status of processing the AssetGroup CR by the AssetGroup Controller. It can be `Ready`, `Pending`, or `Failed`. |
| **status.reason** | Not applicable | Provides the reason why the AssetGroup CR processing succeeded, is pending, or failed. See the [**Reasons**](#status-reasons) section for the full list of possible status reasons and their descriptions. |

>**NOTE:** The AssetGroup Controller automatically adds all parameters marked as **Not applicable** to the AssetGroup CR.

### Status reasons

Processing of an AssetGroup CR can succeed, continue, or fail for one of these reasons:

| Reason | Phase | Description |
| --------- | ------------- | ----------- |
| `AssetCreated` | `Pending` | The AssetGroup Controller created the specified asset. |
| `AssetCreationFailed` | `Failed` | The AssetGroup Controller couldn't create the specified asset due to an error. |
| `AssetsCreationFailed` | `Failed` | The AssetGroup Controller couldn't create assets due to an error. |
| `AssetsListingFailed` | `Failed` | The AssetGroup Controller couldn't list assets due to an error. |
| `AssetDeleted` | `Pending` | The AssetGroup Controller deleted specified assets. |
| `AssetDeletionFailed` | `Failed`  | The AssetGroup Controller couldn't delete the specified asset due to an error. |
| `AssetsDeletionFailed` | `Failed` | The AssetGroup Controller couldn't delete assets due to an error. |
| `AssetUpdated` | `Pending` | The AssetGroup Controller updated the specified asset. |
| `AssetUpdateFailed` | `Failed` | The AssetGroup Controller couldn't upload the specified asset due to an error. |
| `AssetsUpdateFailed` | `Failed` | The AssetGroup Controller couldn't update assets due to an error. |
| `AssetsReady` | `Ready` | Assets are ready to use. |  
| `WaitingForAssets` | `Pending` | Waiting for assets to be in the `Ready` status phase. |
| `BucketError` | `Failed` | Bucket verification failed due to an error. |
| `AssetsWebhookGetFailed` | `Failed` | The AssetGroup Controller failed to obtain proper webhook configuration. |
| `AssetsSpecValidationFailed` | `Failed` | Asset specification is invalid due to an error. |

## Related resources and components

These are the resources related to this CR:

| Custom resource |   Description |
|----------|------|
| Asset |  The AssetGroup CR orchestrates the creation of the Asset CR and defines its content. |

These components use this CR:

| Component   |   Description |
|----------|------|
| Rafter | Manages Asset CRs created based on the definition in the AssetGroup CR. |

Commit message:

Mention the configmap mode in Rafter (#6968)

docs/rafter/06-02-assetgroup.md, after:

---
title: AssetGroup
type: Custom Resource
---

The `assetgroups.rafter.kyma-project.io` CustomResourceDefinition (CRD) is a detailed description of the kind of data and the format used to define an orchestrator that creates Asset CRs for a specific asset type. To get the up-to-date CRD and show the output in the YAML format, run this command:

```bash
kubectl get crd assetgroups.rafter.kyma-project.io -o yaml
```

## Sample custom resource

This is a sample AssetGroup custom resource (CR) that provides details of the Asset CRs for the **markdown**, **asyncapi**, and **openapi** source types.

```yaml
apiVersion: rafter.kyma-project.io/v1beta1
kind: AssetGroup
metadata:
  name: slack
  labels:
    rafter.kyma-project.io/view-context: service-catalog
    rafter.kyma-project.io/group-name: components
    rafter.kyma-project.io/order: "6"
spec:
  displayName: Slack
  description: "Slack documentation"
  bucketRef:
    name: test-bucket
  sources:
    - type: markdown
      name: markdown-slack
      mode: single
      parameters:
        disableRelativeLinks: "true"
      url: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/slackapi/slack-api-specs/master/README.md
    - type: asyncapi
      name: asyncapi-slack
      mode: single
      url: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/slackapi/slack-api-specs/master/events-api/slack_events_api_async_v1.json
    - type: openapi
      name: openapi-slack
      mode: single
      url: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/slackapi/slack-api-specs/master/web-api/slack_web_openapi_v2.json
status:
  lastHeartbeatTime: "2019-03-18T13:42:55Z"
  message: Assets are ready to use
  phase: Ready
  reason: AssetsReady
```

## Custom resource parameters

This table lists all possible parameters of a given resource together with their descriptions:


| Parameter   |      Required      |  Description |
|----------|:-------------:|------|
| **metadata.name** | Yes | Specifies the name of the CR. It also defines the **rafter.kyma-project.io/asset-group** label added to the Asset CR that the AssetGroup CR defines. Because of label name limitations, AssetGroup CR names can have a maximum length of 63 characters. |
| **metadata.labels** | No | Specifies how to filter and group Asset CRs that the AssetGroup CR defines. See [this](#details-rafter-in-console) document for more details. |
| **spec.displayname** | Yes | Specifies a human-readable name of the AssetGroup CR. |
| **spec.description** | Yes | Provides more details on the purpose of the AssetGroup CR. |
| **spec.bucketRef.name** | No | Specifies the name of the bucket that stores the assets from the AssetGroup. |
| **spec.sources** | Yes | Defines the type of the asset and the **rafter.kyma-project.io/type** label added to the Asset CR.  |
| **spec.sources.type** | Yes | Specifies the type of assets included in the AssetGroup CR. |
| **spec.sources.name** | Yes | Defines an identifier of a given asset. It must be unique if there is more than one asset of a given type in the AssetGroup CR. |
| **spec.sources.mode** | Yes | Specifies if the asset consists of one file or a set of compressed files in the ZIP or TAR format. Use `single` for one file and `package` for a set of files.  |
| **spec.sources.parameters** | No | Specifies a set of parameters for the asset. For example, use it to define what to render, disable, or modify in the UI. Define it in a valid YAML or JSON format. |
| **spec.sources.url** | Yes | Specifies the location of a single file or a package. |
| **spec.sources.filter** | No | Specifies a set of assets from the package to upload. The regex used in the filter must be [RE2](https://golang.org/s/re2syntax)-compliant. |
| **status.lastheartbeattime** | Not applicable | Provides the last time when the AssetGroup Controller processed the AssetGroup CR. |
| **status.message** | Not applicable | Describes a human-readable message on the CR processing progress, success, or failure. |
| **status.phase** | Not applicable | The AssetGroup Controller adds it to the AssetGroup CR. It describes the status of processing the AssetGroup CR by the AssetGroup Controller. It can be `Ready`, `Pending`, or `Failed`. |
| **status.reason** | Not applicable | Provides the reason why the AssetGroup CR processing succeeded, is pending, or failed. See the [**Reasons**](#status-reasons) section for the full list of possible status reasons and their descriptions. |

> **NOTE:** The AssetGroup Controller automatically adds all parameters marked as **Not applicable** to the AssetGroup CR.

> **TIP:** ClusterAsset CRs have an additional `configmap` mode that allows you to refer to asset sources stored in ConfigMaps. If you use this mode, set the **url** parameter to `{namespace}/{configMap-name}`, like `url: default/sample-configmap`. This mode is not enabled in Kyma. To check how it works, see [Rafter tutorials](https://katacoda.com/rafter/) for examples.

### Status reasons

Processing of an AssetGroup CR can succeed, continue, or fail for one of these reasons:

| Reason | Phase | Description |
| --------- | ------------- | ----------- |
| `AssetCreated` | `Pending` | The AssetGroup Controller created the specified asset. |
| `AssetCreationFailed` | `Failed` | The AssetGroup Controller couldn't create the specified asset due to an error. |
| `AssetsCreationFailed` | `Failed` | The AssetGroup Controller couldn't create assets due to an error. |
| `AssetsListingFailed` | `Failed` | The AssetGroup Controller couldn't list assets due to an error. |
| `AssetDeleted` | `Pending` | The AssetGroup Controller deleted specified assets. |
| `AssetDeletionFailed` | `Failed`  | The AssetGroup Controller couldn't delete the specified asset due to an error. |
| `AssetsDeletionFailed` | `Failed` | The AssetGroup Controller couldn't delete assets due to an error. |
| `AssetUpdated` | `Pending` | The AssetGroup Controller updated the specified asset. |
| `AssetUpdateFailed` | `Failed` | The AssetGroup Controller couldn't upload the specified asset due to an error. |
| `AssetsUpdateFailed` | `Failed` | The AssetGroup Controller couldn't update assets due to an error. |
| `AssetsReady` | `Ready` | Assets are ready to use. |  
| `WaitingForAssets` | `Pending` | Waiting for assets to be in the `Ready` status phase. |
| `BucketError` | `Failed` | Bucket verification failed due to an error. |
| `AssetsWebhookGetFailed` | `Failed` | The AssetGroup Controller failed to obtain proper webhook configuration. |
| `AssetsSpecValidationFailed` | `Failed` | Asset specification is invalid due to an error. |

## Related resources and components

These are the resources related to this CR:

| Custom resource |   Description |
|----------|------|
| Asset |  The AssetGroup CR orchestrates the creation of the Asset CR and defines its content. |

These components use this CR:

| Component   |   Description |
|----------|------|
| Rafter | Manages Asset CRs created based on the definition in the AssetGroup CR. |
