# Migrate from v1.11 to v1.12

## API Gateway

Migration from Api to APIRule custom resources (CRs) is performed automatically by a job that runs during the Kyma upgrade. During this process, the [API Gateway Migrator tool](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/blob/master/components/api-gateway-migrator/README.md#api-gateway-migrator) translates the existing Api CRs to APIRule CRs and deletes the original resources.

Before proceeding with the migration check if all Apis have a status. Fetch all the Apis without the status:

```shell script
kubectl get apis --all-namespaces -o json | jq '.items | .[] | select(.status == null)'
```

Receiving no results means that you can perform the upgrade. If, however, you can see any Api in the output, recreate each Api with:

```shell script
# set variables
export API_NAME={INSERT_API_NAME_HERE}
export API_NAMESPACE={INSERT_API_NAMESPACE_HERE}
# create temporary file
export TMP_FILE=$(mktemp)
# save Api to temporary file
kubectl get api -n ${API_NAMESPACE} ${API_NAME} > ${TMP_FILE}
# remove Api
kubectl delete api -n ${API_NAMESPACE} ${API_NAME}
# remove dependent resources
kubectl delete virtualservice -n ${API_NAMESPACE} ${API_NAME}
kubectl delete policy -n ${API_NAMESPACE} ${API_NAME} --ignore-not-found
# recreate Api from saved file
kubectl apply -f ${TMP_FILE}
```

After the Apis are recreated check again if all of them have a status. The result should be empty. 

>**CAUTION:** Migrating resources may result in a temporary downtime of the exposed service. 

During migration, it may turn out that some resource specifications are too complex or fail to meet all the migration requirements. In such a case the process skips them but doesn't break the way existing services are exposed. However, if you want to introduce further changes or remove the Api CR, your actions won't have any effect on how the service is exposed because it will still use the original configuration.  

>**NOTE:** If the migration process skipped the Api resources due to the invalid status or a blacklisted label, migration is not possible.

Here are the steps you need to follow to ensure your services are properly migrated:

1. [Verify the migration](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/blob/1.12/docs/api-gateway/03-04-migration.md#verify-the-automatic-migration). 
2. If you can still see any Api CRs in use, use the [manual migration](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/blob/1.12/docs/api-gateway/03-04-migration.md#manual-migration) guide to migrate them.