# Migrate from 1.15 to 1.16

## Istio

Kyma 1.16 comes with a new Istio version: 1.5.10.

All Istio-related objects in Kyma are updated, but the migration may be necessary for the Istio objects created manually in your cluster.
Please read the [Istio upgrade notes](https://istio.io/latest/news/releases/1.5.x/announcing-1.5/upgrade-notes/) for the details.
Please ensure you're not using Istio RBAC, which is [deprecated](https://istio.io/v1.5/docs/reference/config/security/istio.rbac.v1alpha1/) and may not work after the upgrade. Use the [Authorization Policy](https://istio.io/latest/docs/reference/config/security/authorization-policy/) to configure authorization for your services.
In addition, consider migrating existing Authentication Policy to equivalent PeerAuthentication and RequestAuthentication objects.

## Eventing

In Release 1.16, we remove the support for Knative-Serving from Kyma. After the upgrade Knative-Serving is still 
installed and fully functional in the cluster, but can be removed easily in order to free resources. Removing 
Knative-Serving will not affect supported Kyma functionality.

Before you remove Knative-Serving from the cluster, make sure that you create a backup of any of your own resources that used 
Knative-Serving. You can do this by running:

```bash
kubectl get serving -A -oyaml > <backup-file-name>
```

To remove the `knative-serving` chart, execute:

```bash
helm delete knative-serving -n knative-serving
``` 
>**NOTE:** This requires Helm version 3.x

This command renders Knative-Serving inactive, but all user-created configuration is still available in the cluster. 
To remove the CustomResourceDefinitions for Knative-Serving along with the respective CustomResources, run:

```bash
kubectl delete crd \
  certificates.networking.internal.knative.dev \
  configurations.serving.knative.dev \
  images.caching.internal.knative.dev \
  ingresses.networking.internal.knative.dev \
  metrics.autoscaling.internal.knative.dev \
  podautoscalers.autoscaling.internal.knative.dev \
  revisions.serving.knative.dev \
  routes.serving.knative.dev \
  serverlessservices.networking.internal.knative.dev \
  services.serving.knative.dev
```

## Logging

In Release 1.16, we change the `instance` label on the logs corresponding to the Pod name to `pod`, which fits better to the observability ecosystem.
Also, the `container` label for a function pointing to `lambda` in the previous releases now points to `function`. 
If you search for the logs from a function with `container: lambda` filter, you will need to change it to `container: function` from this release on.
