We are pleased to announce the release of API Gateway 2.4.0, the biggest release since the release 2.0.0 which introduced the modular architecture.
This release introduces the new, entirely Istio-based `v2alpha1` version of the APIRule CustomResourceDefinition (CRD) and custom resource (CR).
The new version of the APIRule CRD is a significant step towards a stable API Gateway API.

## The Status of the `APIRule` CRD in Version `v1beta1`

Now, both versions of APIRule custom resources are supported. The APIRule CR in version `v1beta1` will become deprecated in 2024 once we finish extending its configuration. Currently, we’re working on adding the `extAuth` access strategy, which might be a migration path for `oauth2` handlers based on Ory Oathkeeper. For the `no_auth` and `jwt` access strategies, you can already migrate your APIRule CRs by applying the respective configuration in the new version. When the time comes and we announce the deprecation, you’ll see the detailed migration procedure in [API Gateway Resources](https://kyma-project.io/#/api-gateway/user/custom-resources/README). For SAP BTP, Kyma runtime users, the deprecation will also be announced in a What’s New note. For now, we encourage you to learn more about the new version and follow the [APIRule `v1alpha2` tutorials](https://kyma-project.io/#/api-gateway/user/tutorials/README).

## Version `v2alpha1` of the APIRule CRD

The structure of the `v2alpha1` API is defined in [`v2alpha1` custom resource documentation](../user/custom-resources/apirule/v2alpha1/04-10-apirule-custom-resource.md).

The new version of the APIRule CRD introduces the following changes:
- The `APIRule` authorization policy is now based solely on Istio. The `APIRule` CRD no longer supports the Ory Oathkeeper authorization policy.
- The available access strategies are now limited to `jwt` and `noAuth`, with plans to support `extAuth` in the future. You can find more information about the strategies in the [access strategies documentation](https://kyma-project.io/#/api-gateway/user/custom-resources/apirule/v2alpha1/04-15-api-rule-access-strategies.md) and the [ADR](https://github.com/kyma-project/api-gateway/issues/938) for the `extAuth` strategy.

The new version is not backward compatible with `v1beta1`.


## New Features

- Change Ory Oathkeeper's scaling to be based only on CPU utilization. This adjustment ensures that the scaling is more responsive to traffic changes, as Oathkeeper memory utilization is not a good indicator of the traffic load.
- Introduce APIRule in version `v2alpha1` [#996](https://github.com/kyma-project/api-gateway/pull/996)
- Introduce migration procedure for switching from `v1beta1` to `v2alpha1` APIRule [#1170](https://github.com/kyma-project/api-gateway/pull/1170)

## Bug Fixes

- Fix rendering of APIRule list when multiple APIRules exist [#1069](https://github.com/kyma-project/api-gateway/pull/1069)
